From Hanselman it's dot com.
There's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 98. Recorded live
Tuesday, January 22nd, 2008. Support for Hanselman
it's as provided by. Tellerik
already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forums and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with his dad, David
Hanselman, about the trials and
tribulations of raising a computer
person. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm sitting here with my
dad and good afternoon. Hi
dad. I thought it would
be cool to have you
on the show. And I
know you think it's weird.
You kind of got this
look on your face, like,
and we're talking about what
and computers, what are computers?
Yeah, it's a little uneasy,
but you can, we can
handle it. We can handle
it. So, you know, I
have this, it's a, this
is a podcast, right? People
will get this on their,
on their iPod automatically iPod.
Is that anything like an
eight track? Yeah, yeah.
yes I do. But they're
going to get it automatically.
It's like, it's a second
subscription. So it's like a
radio show except there's no
radio and well, arguably there's
not even a show at
this point. Right. But it's
early yet. It's early. Who
knows? Who knows, but, you
know, I thought it'd be
interesting to just talk to
you and talk about how,
how, how, how hard it
was to put up with
me growing up and with
my brother. And what w
was it different to raise
a geek and whatnot, but
so you were a fireman
for 30. I was a
firefighter for 30 years in
Portland. So for the listeners
that are from countries that
are not the U S
there's a lot of wood
houses in the U S
yeah. All, most of the
homes in the Northwest are
built out of wood. And
so consequently firefighters are needed
and they are looked upon
favorably by the public for
the most part. And I
was fortunate enough to work
for the city of Portland
fire department from the early
seventies, up until 2002. And
I retired there after 30
years now, firefighters, they don't
just save buildings from fires,
but they also, they save
people like if you have
a heart attack in the
U S you'll call a
firefighter, right? The nine one,
one system pretty much nationwide.
And I think it's starting
to even internationally, we'll bring
a fire department for a
medical Emergency or for fires
or any kind of emergency
that's ness, you know, that
you need, you need help
with. I was a paramedic
for the last 15 years
and was a Lieutenant in
charge of a crew. And
we'd take the, we would
respond with the fire engine
and for people and all
our medical equipment and our
firefighting equipment. And we would
be mobile enough with the
advent of the, an improvement
of radios. The communication system
allowed us to go pretty
well anywhere we were needed.
And so that's how I
spent my 30 years. So
at the beginning, I mean,
it's considered a pretty decent
job. Right? Good job. You
bet. You're not going to
get rich, but it was
certainly a job that you
can, it's a lifestyle. It's
a it's choices. You make,
you know, it, I could
have made more money probably
in the private sector, but
I grew up in an
era of security being important.
My mother raised three of
us by herself after my
dad died, when we were
quite young. And so security
was always something that we
were very aware of or
the lack of security. And
so when I had a
chance to get with the
fire department, it was a
choice that I, I didn't
know what I was getting
into, but I'm certainly glad
I got there. But when
you met mom, you were
bagging groceries. When I, yeah.
When I met your mother,
I was still bagging groceries
and going to school part
time. Yeah. And while I
say bagging groceries, that by
then I was, I think
I was third man at
a Thriftway store or something
like that. And back then,
actually, when I went in
the fire department, I made,
I had to take a
pay cut from being a
grocery clerk. I had better
benefits. I had better really
a monthly salary being a
grocery clerk. But within a
period of a year, once
I came on full time
with the fire department, it
kinda, it bounced. And then
over the years, of course
surpassed what the grocery clerks,
Not even then. I remember
growing up that you had
other jobs, you would always
do something on the side.
Was that because you were
bored or did we need,
we needed the money? I
mean, I don't know. I
was five so, Well, I
started working a second job
right out, as soon as
I got out of training
with the fire department. Cause
it didn't pay that much.
And I was, you know,
we were young, married, couple.
My wife had worked before
with the gas company, but
then when you came along,
we made a conscious choice
to have a parent at
home. We both came from
single parents scenarios. So the
idea of having someone at
home was real important to
both of us. And so
we made a conscious choice
that I would work a
second job and she would
stay home and be a
parent. And you know, it'd
be mother and father actually
for a while there. And
so I was driving oil
truck during the winter, I'd
lay asphalt the summer I
did a handyman work, you
know, for a couple of
different guys. I knew had
businesses repair businesses. We also
did what they call millwork
going into new construction and
casing out windows and putting
in doors and things like
that. So I kept busy
for the first I was
working two jobs for probably
10 to 15 years. And
then finally, when I got
promoted to Lieutenant and things
started taking shape a little
better, we decided we'll live
off the one salary. And
when was the first time
that this is a tenant,
this will sound like a
weird segue, but I'm going
somewhere with this. When was
the first time you saw
a computer even thought about
that term and the idea
of technology, as opposed to
just typewriters and tell us,
I have vivid memories of
typewriters of the, when I
first came in the fire
department, we used an old,
like a pegboard system with
little plugs that, and it
was a teletype. It was
like an old teletype from
the thirties. And that is
how they communicated and that,
and telephone, hardwired telephone. There
was one heavy, maybe five
pound, two way radio that
was carried by the each
officer on each fire engine.
There were no computers, none
at all in the Bureau,
at least not at the
stations. Not that the individual
fire companies dealt with it
was strictly mainframes. Oh no.
The mainframe was a wooden
peg board with plugs with
that, like a cribbage board,
but on the wall, on
the wall, like a cribbage
or a, or a Parcheesi
board and the numbers that
related to the numbers of
the fire engines. And they
would, we had codes like
a teletype code Telegraph code
that they would punch over
this system. And then we
would, from that knowledge and
from learning that code, we
would put these different companies
into the appropriate plugs, if
you will. And we'd know
that they were in service
or out of service, they
were available or not available.
And then know whether we
would be closer to taking
the next run and all
that and hard telephone. Oh,
so you're getting, you're getting
this feed, this teletype feed
and you go, Oh, it's
a five 29. And I
got to go up on
the board and some guy
updates. It's always someone monitoring
the board and the teletype
screen. That was the big
screen. That was the mainframe.
If you will, for that
fire station back in 71
72. And when you get
a rep, when you get
to come back from a
fire, you type it up
in a report with typewriters
Typewriter. Oh yeah. Everybody had
a big Smith Coronas with
that were, could handle legal
size paper. I mean, it
was big electric typewriters, but
Now my brother, my younger
brother, Josh is a fireman
and he firefighter, he, we
don't say fire man. Oh
no, no fire is women
firefighters. There are women firefighters
And on his, on his
crew, that's one firefighter. So
he, he types it into
some windows application and it's
all. Yeah. I believe it's
a windows application and a
central database. What they call
MDTs mobile data terminals. They
have them on in each
fire engine in front of
the officer, they've got a
touch screen. They have a
keyboard, they have different methods
or different ways that they
can do it. And then
of course, when they, they
can communicate via that and
get information regarding residences or
commercial buildings that they're responding
to, they can just type
in an address and they
can tell you whether there's
hazardous materials there or what
other things they need to
be aware of before they
go in. So I, I
remember when I think the
first computer I saw was
some kind of Apple computer,
fourth grade, fifth grade, somewhere
in there when I was
kind of a, what would
you say? What? I was
going to say, rambunctious child.
But I was to think,
thank you, dad. Yeah, you
were, you were a handful.
Okay. A handful I'd have
to say now. Well, that's
being nice. We are on
the air, right? Yes we
are. You're on the air.
Thank you, dad. You were
a handful. You were a
precocious. That's another adjective that
was used back then. Rambunctious.
I guess I would have
been on Ritalin. Yeah. If
they'd had it, they, you
would have been on it
probably. But this is the
seventies we're talking about. This
is the early seventies and
you're but your mother and
I both, I mean, there
were people who suggested that
we consider, you know, medicating
you if you will. But
that option didn't appeal to
us. Really. We felt that
less seriously. No, I'm not.
That's right. This is news.
I appreciate that. As I
remember it, now, your mother
may remember it differently. You
know, we'll have her on
next year. Yeah. I'm told
I have selective memory. So
I have no idea whether
this is, this is the
way I remember it. It's
about 30 years. There was
a, yeah, really. There were
times when they suggested that,
that we consider medication and
we didn't feel it was
the way to go. We
felt that if, if you
were kept busy, kept stimulated,
that that would temper the
whole situation down a little
bit. And so every effort
was made by your mother,
primarily because she was the
main caregiver with me working
so much to keep you
occupied and stimulated busy. And
then when you basically beat
her down, we said, okay,
what are we going to
do now? You know? So
no, you, you were in
daycare at a very early
age back when it wasn't
fashionable to put kids in
daycare when they were two
years old and you were
reading when you were some
ridiculous age of three or
something like that, you were
reading. And so it was
like, we've got to keep
this guy busy and by
great school, you, after you
destroyed two teachers, I think
it was your third or
fourth grade teacher that you
finally knew how to handle
you. And just said, you
know, this is what we
need to do. This is
a thought, what do you
think? And that's when computers
came in. Well, I remember
that this was kind of
back when the school districts
were a little more involved
and I seem to remember
a, and this may be
me remembering legend, but I
remember the principal, my teacher,
and then possibly a superintendent
meeting involved in Pfizer to
this, you know, somebody high
up who could say, we've
got this $2,500, 2000, $3,000
or seven heck of a
lot of money now, but
it's Yeah, they had one
or two computers at the
school at the time of
school at the whole school.
It was the school district
was just starting to get
into computers. They were dealing
with, I believe primarily Apple
at the time. And it
was heavy. I remember that
it was big. It was
heavy. That's why we used
to truck. So, so we
worked a deal out where
we would take the truck,
sneak the computer out, kind
of quote, unquote sneak. Cause
we didn't want the other
kids to be jealous. It
was one of these things
where we had to be
subtle. We came in on
Friday afternoons, back the truck,
up to the door and
two or three trips from
the room into the back
of the truck, covered it
with a tarp and went
home, you know? And that
kept you busy over the
weekend. We had a computer
that you were able to
play around with and you
knew more about it than,
I mean, we just, I
mean, 30 years later, give
me an idea. I didn't
have a clue. I mean,
you know, I was cleaning
up in my garage or
in my shop and you
know, as long as you
were quiet, I was thrilled
Down with me and have
me show you what I
was doing. I'm sure you
probably did, but re refresh
my memory. I know, like
you said, it was 30
years ago. We used to
get books. Like I still
have one of these books
that was called the it's
like a 1982. I'm looking
over my bookshelf here. That
was a book full of
programs to type in, to
simulate the Olympics. Oh, okay.
Text-based yeah. So I had
to type the program in,
you know, kept your busy
line, 10 print, welcome to
the Olympics line 20 print.
And it would tell you
things like you do the
long jump and it'd be
all you type in the
angle and the speed. And
it would let you know
how far you jumped. No,
no graphics at all. We're
talking about basically, Right? This
was just basic. This was
letters. If I remember on
a green screen, Exactly. The
whole texts. I mean, it's
called the basic language. That
was, Was that still on
that the one that we
got from the school or
is this The one from
the computer? Okay. And visual
basic, which you know about,
cause you've seen it on
my blog a couple of
times, that's the kind of
people are still using basic.
It's just, it's different now.
But the, the, the, his,
the history is there. And
then if I remember correctly,
this was a success. Yeah.
It seemed to, well, you,
you found a real, I
mean, and the teachers at
school were saying, Hey, this,
whatever we were doing, we
were doing it. Right. And
we were blessed with you.
You are blessed. And we
all were with some great
teachers at, at Glen Haven
school in Portland, Oregon. And
there, there were just some
real special people who would
take you, you know, laterally
as well as vertically. Well,
the teachers you remember came
to my wedding. Oh yeah.
20 plus 25 years later.
Yeah. No, they were special
people. And they, I mean,
they were a large part
of our family and made,
certainly made our life easier.
Are you implying? They were
my medication. Yeah. They were
actually cheaper than the Ritalin
was at the time. The
market value for Ritalin was
high then, but teachers, I
mean, I was paying taxes
anyway, by God, we got
our tax dollars out of
them. They were cool teachers.
There is a time. In
fact, some people have One
in their lifetime. You have
three great teachers. Yeah. Well,
you had more than that
even. Yeah. But just off
the, just thinking about first
through eighth grade, there were
three people who we still
talk to now, one, one
has passed away, but two,
we still are in communication.
Yeah. No, it was, it
helped your mother and I
beyond, you know, compare. And
then, then, you know, right
behind you was your brother
who was equally curious, but
a hundred percent different in
many respects, you know? And
so we had to get
the two young boys less
than two years apart. And
you know, like so many
parents are both today and
back then, you know, first
time parents, new parents have
a couple of handfuls that
we're dealing. I mean, every
kid's a handful in their
own way, Without a doubt,
you know? And so, yeah,
we were, we were a
little stressed out, but it,
it worked. And then they
said, well, you know, we're
not going to be able
to, you need to get
him his own computer. We
can't be doing this every
Friday, Monday through Friday, you
know, he still needs to
keep busy on, on the
evenings. Can you maybe get
him a computer? And it
was like, okay, well how
much is this going to
cost? Right, exactly. And cause
like I said, I was
working two jobs. I think
you were doing the oil
truck, you were driving your
firemen and you're driving the
oil truck around. Yeah. We
didn't have a lot of
money. You know, we made
some life choices. We fed,
we ate every day though
we ate every day, we
made some choices, life choices.
And that involved me working
two jobs, which was fine,
but it was like the
money was tight. So whatever
we bought, we had to
make sure that it was
going to work and your
mom investigated it, you know,
just in depth as much
as she could then and
made a lot of phone
calls and, and talked with
you. Cause you, you were
cognizant of, you know, more
things computer wise than she
was. And that we were,
you know, I mean, when
she was working at the
gas company, she was proficient
in a 10 key. That
was for those of you
that don't know what the
heck of key is. We
got that on the side
of the that's yeah. That's
kind of like the side
of your keyboard, but it's
manual and it's not digital
anything. It was a, they
were spring loaded buttons. And
then you had a lever
on the side that you
pulled to tabulate it. So,
but she was good at
it. And so she investigated
and came up with the
idea of getting a Commodore
64 and it was like,
then the next question was,
where's the money gonna come
from? So we sold the
van, we ended up selling
a van. We had an
old Ford van and we
sold that, bought the Commodore.
And we figured, okay, if
this doesn't work, at least
let's get something out of
this in a positive development
for other people. So rather
than to get it, quote,
monitor unquote, we got a
television set, 13 inch TV,
16 inch TV set that
It was our first color
TV at that point. Or
have we, so then we
had, well, if this computer
thing doesn't work out, we
can always use it as
a TV. Is the truck,
wasn't a total waste. You
know what I mean? Being
opened seriously as a nine
or Darville when it was
nine or 10 years old,
when that happened. I remember
the idea that this big
blue mult, you know, multi
ton truck van is now
gone replaced with this size
shoe box sized box. And
I remember that Box was
replaced with another box There
being some trepidation that trepidation,
but there was this kind
of like On my part.
Yeah. You might have detected,
I was going to say
buyer's remorse, but yeah, No,
there was a little resentment.
This thing is a van.
Yeah. I couldn't take the
computer hunting and fishing. I
couldn't sleep in the back
of it. You know? I
mean when I was fishing,
so yeah, there was just
a tad bit of resentment,
but it passed, you know,
I think with your first
paycheck. So 20 short years
later, you're already short I'm
over it. But that's an
interesting thing though, because you
made a choice, a dramatic
life choice. You got rid
of your car, the car
you fished in. We had
another vehicle, but I mean,
we got rid of one
of the vehicles in order
to yeah. As a child,
even then I realized that
this was a big deal.
This was the most valuable
thing that we had in
the house Material wise. No,
the two kids were the
most valuable thing we had
in the house material wise,
Charlie, this was, you know,
it's like 300 bucks. Oh
it's more than that. Was
it big? It was, I
don't remember what the color
was back in the day,
but it was a nontrivial
and I don't remember what
the price was being honest,
but it was, we went
to Sears and we bought
this Commodore and then I
started typing in programs with
graphics. And then we got
an interesting man. And then
I remember this, remember when
I started the bulletin board,
I was 14. And I
said, I'm going to start
this bulletin board. I need
you to give me another
phone line. And I said,
and you said, well, you're
going to need to get
a job. I was 14.
And when I went to
an org member that where
you wouldn't pay for the
phone line, we're talking about
a $40 a month phone
line. This was back when
a hardware. Cause I was
living in the garage. I
was living in the garage.
W we had moved from
Portland up to Beaverton at
that Point. Then I lived
behind the garage and a
little apartment behind the car,
Like a mother-in-law apartment behind
the garage. And the house
itself only had two bedrooms.
So your brother lived in
one of the bed, you
know, I had one bedroom
and that you were being
the eldest, get the privilege
or the No, to be
sequestered back of the garage,
Slate it in the back
of the garage where I
can lock you back there
yet. Sure. So for me,
I got it. So I
wanted a phone line cause
I got this. So I
went and got a job
as a stock boy at
Nordstrom's that's right. And that
was, that was 14. And
then 15, I started a
company. Remember you helped me
fill out the paperwork to
get a corporation. Of course,
Operation through the state on
that one. You've got it
licensed. Yeah. I was 15
registered. Yeah. I did the
whole corporation division thing. And
then I think at the
height had a couple of
phone lines go in there
and I had people calling
in on this. Yeah. Two
phone lines. Yeah. One was
computer. One was phone. Yeah.
I ended up using them
both actually For computers. Yeah.
So we had, at that
point we had three phone
lines into the house. One
to the house two to
you. Right? Exactly. So then
I had people calling in
playing games over the phone.
Was he being Slated where
you were? I didn't know
a lot of this stuff
and it's probably best that
I didn't, you know? Well,
I don't even know whether
your mom knew about, We
should probably make sure she
doesn't listen to the podcast.
But what was cool about
this is that I thought
you were really, you guys
were really good about enabling
me to do this stuff,
but not in the writing
a check, Hey kid, here's
some money, go do your
thing. When I said I
wanted a phone line, you
said, how are you going
to pay for that? And
when I wanted a computer,
I think I bought a
46. You took me down
to a little computer shop
in downtown Portland. And it
was $2,000. Remember that I'm
afraid this guy's name I'd
forgotten and we needed to
pay for it. And at
this point I've got a
little corporation. So you went
and co-signed and I thought
this was so cool. My
friends thought this was cool.
It was $15,000 loan for
tutoring. Your name's my name
though. So I was building
credit for the corporation and
it was also deduction. And
this is cool because I'd
forgotten about that. Speaking of
things, you didn't forget, you
forgot about one of the
coolest things you ever did
was after I got the
corporation, I started doing the
business, started doing my own
taxes. 15. I got up.
Did you ever save me
any money? Doing taxes? Probably
not. I got an American
express card, corporate card and
I dropped it at school.
And the principal found it.
Remember that? Yeah. I'm trying
to remember the principal found
it and called you and
started to kind of read
you the riot act. Like
how does this boy have
a corporate card for American
express? And he children this
age shouldn't have credit cards
that you didn't know. I
had the card because I'm
15. At this point, I'm
not supposed to have a
credit card until I'm 18.
I think someone may have
accidentally put the wrong birthday
on. Do you think on
an application and then what
was so cool was that
you were called to the
principal's office. You came into
school. Was it me? Or
was it your mom? Was
you? Because I remember because
you said you hadn't, this
was the first year learning
of this and you said,
my son manages his money
better than I do. And
I backed him up a
hundred percent for having this
car and you completely shut
her down. And then afterwards
you said, you little, what
are you doing with this
fricking card? I want you
to cut this thing, but
you backed me up in
front of the principal. I
forgot. I'd forgotten about that.
Yeah, but it was cool
because you didn't, the business
was getting bigger than you
had expected when you weren't
making a bunch of money,
you know, 15 years old,
15 year old. Alright. I
guess, you know, I don't
know how much did you
make back yet? I was
15. I was pulling down
15 grand a year as
it was, Are near Morton.
I was making as a
firefighter. So that's why I
had to work two jobs.
But that money, that was
a big deal at the
time. And that allowed me
to buy, you know, buy
a car and you know,
and put money down for
our house when we were
older. Yeah. A couple of
years later I was thinking
about that kind of stuff.
But those kinds of things,
when you were backing me
up on things like I
wanted to buy a car
and you said, well, I'll,
I'll help you maintain it.
I'll teach you how to
change the oil, but I'm
not gonna give you the
money for it. Yeah. You
put, you enabled us in
other ways. So speaking of
enabling us with both John
called an enabler before. Yeah.
In the best possible way.
One of the things that
you did with both Josh
and I was that you're
so good with your hands.
You're always building stuff. You
encouraged us to take things
apart And you did a
few things over the years.
I remember. Yeah. I remember
taking apart a clock radio.
You still have a drill
that a quarter. How did
I get that drill? Cause
I couldn't fix the damn
thing for a darn thing.
Right. I couldn't fix it.
I think it was broken.
I had a drill that
was broken. I tried to
fix it or mess with
it and I thought, ah,
the heck with it. And
I said, here's Scott, you
know? And I think you
still have it now. Probably
15. 20. Yeah. You said
what? I don't remember whether
I can repeat what he
said. You said, if you
want this drill, you can
have it, but you have
to fix it. Oh, okay.
Alright. So then I took
it apart and rewired the
pistol, the push button, put
it back together and it
worked. You couldn't believe it
because you'd been working on
it for a couple of
days on and off trying
to get this thing to
work. And I just figured
it, toss it. And then
I got to keep the
drill. It was a nice
drill at the time. It
was a good old Sears
craftsman. You know, I still
have that drill at work.
That's in the garage. Is
it unused? Since in the
last 20 years, I haven't
turned it off it off
Because I'm not known for
being handy. Well, but no
you're handy in your, in
your, In your field, in,
you know, in your area
of expertise, you know, your
brother can take a bicycle
apart, you know, blindfolded and
you know, it can do
as firefighter thing. And when
it comes to computers and
software and programming and you
know, so far, I never
thought it would happen that
way though. Well, you know,
and I didn't know what
was going to happen. I
mean, and as a parent
and I, I know I
can speak for your mother
on this too. I mean
your biggest fear or your
biggest, your biggest want for
your children is for them
to be one, to be
healthy, to, to be productive
and not in jail, you
know, not doing drugs and
not in jail, not on
the Dole and both you
and your brother have, you
know, made your mother. And
I very, very proud of
you exceeded your expectations and
optical. You're not a drag
on me. You know, it's
probably the reverse is true
more than anything else, you
know? No, we're all very
fortunate. We are blessed that
we've done as well as
we've done. And you know,
yeah, we're not rich, but
your mother and I are
retired now and enjoying grandchildren
and you know, your two
lovely boys and Josh was
lovely little grant. Do you
feel looking back on that?
I remember it's bizarre. Totally
bizarre. Do you remember the
time when you said it
at one of my precocious
peaks, I love you that
you said I love you
dearly, but right now I
don't like you very much.
Yeah. Well, you made that
nut podcast, the last podcast
or the last post, their
last blog post that you
put in there. You mentioned
that I saw that too.
Yeah. I was thinking about
it. Just, I do read
what you write once I
read your blog when it's
in English, but I don't
want to say when it's
in computer is I don't
read it. I do a
quick scan. I say, dude,
that's beyond my scope in
C sharp C sharp. And
I'm a flat man. So
I mean, yeah, I'm a
C from the old school.
I mean, I do my
email. I do, you know,
I searched the web for,
you know, bow and arrow
sites and traditional archery sites
and fishing sites and check
my CNN and my Reuters
news and call me when
it doesn't work. And yeah,
when the thing's broken and
I say, come fix this,
you a little cred. You
know what I mean? It's,
that's, that's how you keep
grandpa happy and then I'll
come and, you know, build
your work venture or punch
a hole in your wall
and patch it up for
you. It's trade offs. That's
what life is all about.
We make trade offs with
you guys as kids. You're
going to be making trade
offs with your kids in
the future. I remember trying
to get college figured out
was the tough one. That
was tough. How are we
going to pay for college?
And I ended up visiting
colleges, but I couldn't figure
out how to pay for
it. So we ended up
going to community college. And
you remember that took quite
a few years for me
to finish my, my degree
when you were working and
going to school, is that
important? I mean, I mean,
I didn't graduate until if
you remember you, when you
dropped out of school to
be clear, you didn't make
it to high school. No,
I didn't know. You took
out of college though. I
was asked to leave one
college and then I chose
to leave one or two
others. I mean, I, I've
got, I think three years
as far as credits. I
think I've got three somewhere
in my junior year, but
then I had, you know,
just a multitude of training
episodes with the fire department
over the years. And then
the equivalent of on top
of that when I was
in my late forties, I
went through paramedic school, which
equates now to an associate's
degree. So you have associates?
Well, I mean, I have,
I have a pair of,
I was a paramedic. I
was, you know, the fact
that I have a quote
associates back in the seventies
when I was going to
school, they didn't have, you
know, you had junior colleges
or credit community colleges, but
I don't even think they
had degrees that they were
issuing for some of the
stuff that I was taking.
You know, I was taking
anthropology. And Was that important?
I mean, I remember you
guys were, you guys were
even for you teaching Josh
and I, you were like,
well, we'd like you to
go to college. You know,
we hadn't gone. You guys
didn't go to college until
mom went later in life.
I went later in life
and got her master's degree
at 60. I mean, that's
six phenomenal, you know, But
growing up, I don't remember
a lot of pressure. You
guys were mostly pressuring us
to be happy, To be
happy. Do you know, do
what makes you feed your
spirit? That was the main
thing, you know, be a
good person, be a good
human being, treat people the
way you want to be
treated. If you go, you
know, we would like you
to go to school. Yeah.
The whole time we were
encouraging you to go to
school, you know, to your
face, then your mother. And
I would say, how in
the heavens are we going
to pay for this? You
know? Well, and we took
a second mortgage on the
house. It was like, okay,
we'll pay for half. You
pay for half. We'll help
you out. You know, with
tuition, you pay room and
board or whatever, same deal.
Joshua went on a five
year plan to Oregon. Cause
he changed his major. His
junior year. That's fine. You
know, he paid for, you
know, he had X number
of dollars to, to make
it stretch. And if he
could stretch it for five
or six, whatever it took
and the same offer was
to you, you were scheduled
to go to Oregon. You
were all ready to go
ahead and accepted. Yeah. You'd
been accepted to Oregon. And
like in July you said,
yeah, I just don't think
I want to do this.
It was a mess. I
don't know whatever. And I
do, I did that whole
trip back East and I
visited Boston college and I,
I had forgotten it at
MIT. I'd forgotten. I just
wasn't ready to go to
school. I think now at
34, I'm mentally prepared to
attend college. Well, yeah, but
now you're teaching college periodically.
I know. So I mean,
that's, you know, you know,
you've, you've done well, you
know, you got your, you
got, you finally working, continuing,
working and going to school
at night. You got your
bachelor's through, was it OIT
or institution Whitey. I was
working at night. That was
a good deal. Yeah. And
then it turned around and
the night of the graduation,
they introduced you as a,
as a what's the word?
Adjunct. Adjunct. Yeah. As like
part time, not tenured. Yeah.
No pay or minimal pay
and you know, but still
it was fun. I love
teaching. You can graduate and
become an adjunct professor, you
know, the same day. I
mean, that's, that was cool.
You know, it was a
good day. Maybe someday you'll
teach again. If that's what,
you know, feed your spirit.
That's what I do now.
I mean, I would argue
that that's who I am
the teacher, I would say.
Yeah. I would say that.
I mean, in everything I
do, I'm a, I'm a
teacher teacher and in the
lightener well, in the lightener
implies, I have the answers
and I don't have any,
you know, you're, you're presenting
options. Ooh, I like that.
You know, isn't that enlightening,
I'm an option. Enlightening isn't
necessarily giving the answer. It's
just giving one of many
options as the way I
see maybe my definitions to
enlighten implies that there's darkness
without me. And I would
say, Hey, need me to
say more? No, I'm just
saying that. I just let
there be light. I thank
you. I'm saying that. I
really like when, when I
feel like I've got a
perspective on something, not necessarily
all the answers, but a
perspective. And I like to
swap perspectives with people, such
that they go, Oh, I
didn't think about it that
way. And I am, and
I get their perspective. I
see your mother calls up
to me. She says, you
I'm playing devil's advocate all
the time. You know? And
that's just a, a more
basic version of the same
thing. Maybe people, people, right.
We like, we like Shaq,
BSN shooting the BS. Yeah,
exactly. I mean, that's fun.
That's who we are as
young as we're, as long
as we are kind to
people. And as long as
people realize that we're not
malicious, the intent is not
malicious. It's always a for
enlightening purposes or presenting options.
However, you know, then that's,
that's the challenge though. I
mean, to, to present things
to people in such a
way that you say, you
know, here's another thing, if
you like it, I wish
you all the best. And
if not, you know, because
you make a mistake. Yeah.
You know? Okay. That's your
loss. Yeah, no, no. It's
really, it is important. You
know, that's how I was
taught though. I mean, back
to those three people who
was three teachers, they were
very welcoming. They were welcoming
us, the students into the
knowledge. It was like, Hey,
you guys check this out.
Maybe this will be something
you'll enjoy. Look at it
from this angle, Scott, you'll
look at it from this
angle. Yeah. Another Josh, Josh.
And they would encourage every
one of them. And that
was what really pro basketball
was that mrs. Probasco and
she married actually the eighth
grade English teacher married the
seventh grade math teacher. Right.
And they, they got married
and they ended up coming
to the wedding. Yeah. And
then my fifth grade teacher
who gave me the computer
and they were special people,
they came to the yeah.
Excellent, excellent teachers, great educators.
And that's what, well, I
want to do that. I
mean, I want to, when
I retire, I'll go teach
school. Well, and like you
say, you're educating, you know,
in a sense of your
understanding. And that's what my
job is. I think I
read it somewhere, but I
mean, repeat, you know, no,
I'm just curious. Sometimes one
of the things that a
lot of the listeners have
said that like explaining to
their parents what they do,
like what it means to
be a programmer. Yeah. Is
kind of a tough thing
because I mean, if I
were building a bridge that
would make sense. Yeah. You're
building a bridge and then
you look at it 20
years later and there's this
bridge. Isn't that cool. But
with us, I could write
amazing. And I could show
you today and you could
say, Hey, you made that
cool. Like, like, remember gluco
pilot. I wrote that blood
sugar program. You a Palm
pilot just handed me down.
I'm still using a nice,
Hey, very nice pawn and
accused. It's not an antique.
It's a nice, nice regional
Palm pilot. And I use
it actually. I use it
almost, not every day, but
I check it at least
a couple times a week
to see whose birthday I
missed. There you go. So
you know how, by the
way, happy birthday yesterday, only
a day late. I appreciate
that. But you, you know
that, like that to conceive
you basically to conceive of
an idea from scratch, I
sat down and I said,
wouldn't it be cool if
which is what you do
with wood, which I tried
to do with you may
succeeded. I'm yet to succeed,
except with Isabel's a crib.
It's the same thing though.
You make a, you make,
have a concept in your
mind, you visualize you plan.
And then you construct the
only differences that the chair
and the table you made
for my son will be
around next year. Well, my
software will be upgraded by
someone else. It didn't. I,
if I remember right, you
asked me to make a
second chair for your, yeah.
You haven't made yours is
being upgraded. My work's being
upgraded continually. Also. I would
like to see chair 2.0
some time to be a
third, no more children. No
more children. We're done. Thank
you. So just one more
chair, two boys. Any one
more chair. Okay. I'll work
on that. Then you're done.
And you can rest. Oh,
no. I can just wait
for the next request. Well,
dad, I really appreciate you
coming in having a podcast
with me and hanging out
today and for raising you
for everything that you do,
as I've said many, many
times before. Thank you. And
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.